my name is Alec connage and I'm a
psychiatrist who practices in Boston
Massachusetts in my day job I'm an
addiction psychiatrist at a place called
McLean Hospital and I'm also faculty at
Harvard Medical School where I'm an
instructor in psychiatry I'd like to
share with you guys a little bit about
how I got into the helping people with
video game addiction and it actually
starts with me and when I was pretty
young I grew up playing video games
played a lot of video games when I was
in Middle School in high school and
almost failed out of college for playing
too many video games my first year of
college I had less than a 2.0 GPA second
year wasn't a whole lot better and I I
did things like slept through my fan
Spanish final because I was played
playing too many video games the night
before and finally ended up graduating
with about a 2.5 or 2.6 GPA and really
started to try to figure out like what
was going on in my life and like what
what was the deal with playing all these
games and took me a couple of years but
I ended up going to medical school and
ended up training to become a
psychiatrist here in Boston at a place
called Massachusetts General Hospital
and McLean Hospital both of which are
Harvard Medical School teaching
affiliates and so really had some an
amazing had an amazing opportunity to
become a psychiatrist had some brilliant
teachers and I'm grateful that I was
able to train there because they really
taught me a lot about psychiatry and
human beings and how to help people and
while I was training I I kind of went to
these people who were kind of the
brightest minds in psychiatry and like
experts in the field and I asked them
you know can you tell me a little bit
about video game addiction or can you
tell me how to help people who have
problems with video games and none of
them really seem to know and the more
people that I ask the more I realized
like oh the leaders in the field of
Psychiatry are all in their 50s 60s and
70s and so they've actually never played
a video game you know the people that
teach us psychiatry the people who are
experts in depression and anxiety and
addictions are all sort of at the end of
their career or middle of their career
and they've actually never really played
a video game so they don't really know
what it's like and so then I I was
trying to figure out you know how can I
learn about this because my teachers you
know they don't really know too much
about it and so I started just talking
to gamers I started working with gamers
I started talking to gamers from all
over the world through the internet and
people from the Middle East and South
Korea and North America and I just
started working with them and trying to
figure out you know trying to understand
why do you play video games and the more
that I understood about you know talking
to them the more I learned about video
game addiction and the more that I got
you know the more I learned about being
a psychiatrist and how to help people I
realized like maybe I actually can help
these people because a lot of them had
seen psychiatrists or therapists but
what happens is they get diagnosed with
something like depression or anxiety and
they get started on an antidepressant
and they go home and they take their
pill and they keep playing video games
because their problem while they are
depressed the problem really isn't that
they are depressed their problem is that
they play too many video games and so I
started to work with these people and
tried to help them and as the years went
by and I worked with more and more
gamers I started to get better at it and
so now I feel like I know a little bit
about what I'm talking about but I have
to admit that you know the disease is
relatively new we don't really know a
whole lot about it there hasn't been
years or decades of research the way
that there has been on cancer treatment
or treatment for depression but at this
point I do feel confident that I can
help you some or at least that's my hope
my hope is that I can take those years
of experience helping gamers and helping
parents of gamers and helping spouses of
gamers and my years of training is a
psychiatrist and to be able to put those
two together and to help you in some way
and I really hope that I can